Add milestones example (#1048)
open-contracting/standard: docs/guidance/map/milestones.md

# Milestones

Milestones can be included within the planning, tender, contract and contract implementation sections. 

## Planning

The planning milestones block is used for two types of milestones:
 * Key events in the planning stage, for example, the preparation of an environmental impact assessment, the approval to proceed with a project, or the date of a public consultation. 
 * Anticipated milestones during the contract implementation stage, for example, the date by which goods delivery of the goods is required.

If during the planning stage you have information about tender process milestones, then you
populate the tender milestones block instead.

## Tender

The tender milestones block is used to describe two types of milestone:
  * Key dates in the tender and award stages which are not covered by other fields, for example, the date by which procuring entity will respond to enquiries.
  * Anticipated milestones during the contract implementation stage, for example, the date by which goods need to be delivered.

> ## Contracts and implementation

Reviewer: Split into two headings.

Author: I changed this to "Contract" as the description just describe contracts and not implementation here

Reviewer: Doesn't this bullet point describe the use of `contract/implementation/milestones`?

> * Any events related to the delivery of the contract, for example, the agreed date by which goods will be delivered.

My understanding is the `contract/milestones` is just for events related to the signing of the contract.

Author: Oh yes, you are right! Fixed!

The contract milestones block is used to describe two types of milestone:
  * Events related to the signing of the contract, for example, the date of commercial close in a PPP contract.
  * Any events related to the delivery of the contract, for example, the agreed date by which goods will be delivered.

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra line break

> The nature of the milestone is indicated by the [milestone type codelist](../../../schema/codelists#milestone-type), for example, to distinguish between milestones in the planning section which relate to events in the pre-procurement phase and milestones in the planning section which relate to contract implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nature of the milestone is indicated by the [milestone type codelist](../../../schema/codelists#milestone-type), for example, to distinguish between milestones in the planning section which relate to events in the pre-procurement phase and those which relate to contract implementation.
```

* The date the tender notice is expected to be issued is represented using a milestone in `tender/milestones` because it relates to the tender stage of the contracting process. `.dueDate` is set to the date and `.status` is set to scheduled.

In the tender release:

* The `.dateMet` field in the tender notice milestone is updated with the actual date the notice was issued and `.status` is set to 'met'.
To explore differences between the planned and actual date of the tender milestone, users can then compare the values of `tender/milestones/dueDate` and `tender/milestones/dateMet` in a single (compiled) release.

```eval_rst

.. jsoninclude:: ../../examples/milestones/planning-tender-milestones.json
   :jsonpointer: 
   :expand: releases, planning, milestones, tender, milestones
   :title: planning

.. jsoninclude:: ../../examples/milestones/planning-tender-milestones-2.json
   :jsonpointer: 
   :expand: releases, planning, milestones, tender, milestones
   :title: tender

```

### Contract implementation milestones

> The following worked examples show how to use milestones in contracts implementation releases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following worked examples show how to use milestones in contract implementation releases
```

#### Project data

This worked example shows how to use milestones to model the planned and actual start and finish dates for a construction project.

The example below includes three OCDS releases:

> * An award release which includes the scheduled start and end dates for the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An implementation release which includes the scheduled start and end dates for the project.
```

* An implementation update release with the actual start date of the project
* An implementation update release with the actual end date of the project

In the award release:

> * The scheduled start and end dates for the project are represented using milestones in `contracts/implementation/milestones` with `.type` set to 'delivery' because they related to the delivery of the contract. The dates are provided in `.dueDate` and `.status` is set to 'scheduled'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The scheduled start and end dates for the project are represented using milestones in `contracts/implementation/milestones` with `.type` set to 'delivery' because they relate to the delivery of the contract. The dates are provided in `.dueDate` and `.status` is set to 'scheduled'.
```

* The publisher has defined their own values for the `.code` field so they can filter and compare start and end date milestones across different contracts.

> In the first implementation update release:
> 
> * It is published after the project starts but before it completes.

Reviewer: Correct grammar:

```suggestion
In the first implementation update release, which is published after the project starts but before it completes:
```

* In the project commencement milestone, `.dateMet` is set to the actual start date and `.status` is set to 'met'. `.dateModified` is set to the date the milestone was updated.
* In the project completion milestone, `.status` is set to 'notMet' since the project is not yet complete and `.dateModified` is set to the date the milestone was updated.

Users can compare the project commencement milestone's `.dueDate` and `.dateMet` fields to determine if the project started on time. Users can also compare the project completion milestone's `.dueDate` and `.dateModified` fields to determine whether the `.status` has been updated since the scheduled completion date.

> In the second implementation update release:
> 
> * It is published after the project completes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the second implementation update release, which is published after the project completes:
```

* In the project completion milestone, `.dateMet` is set to the actual completion date for the project and `.status` is set to 'met'.

```eval_rst

.. jsoninclude:: ../../examples/milestones/implementation-milestones-1.json
   :jsonpointer: 
   :expand: releases, contracts, implementation, milestones
   :title: implementation

```

```eval_rst

.. jsoninclude:: ../../examples/milestones/implementation-milestones-2.json
   :jsonpointer: 
   :expand: releases, contracts, implementation, milestones
   :title: implementation-update-1

```

```eval_rst

.. jsoninclude:: ../../examples/milestones/implementation-milestones-3.json
   :jsonpointer: 
   :expand: releases, contracts, implementation, milestones
   :title: implementation-update-2

```

#### Delivery and financing data

This example shows how milestones can be used to keep track of delivery and financing (payment) data in a contracting process.

The example below includes three OCDS releases:

> * An implementation release with contract information along its implementation milestones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An implementation release with contract information including scheduled implementation milestones.
```

* An implementation update release with the actual date the milestone was reached.
* An implementation update release with payment information

In the implementation release:

> * Milestones have been set for the delivery and payment of goods and services related to the project. Contract information is released along its implementation milestones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Milestones have been set for the delivery and payment of goods and services related to the project. Contract information is released along with the implementation milestones.
```

In the first implementation update release:

> * The milestone ("Finish the exterior and interior walls") has been reached, then the `status` field is set to 'met' and the relevant dates added to the `dateMet` and `dateModified` fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The milestone ("Finish the exterior and interior walls") has been met, so the `status` field is set to 'met' and the relevant dates are added to the `dateMet` and `dateModified` fields.
```

In the second implementation update release:

> * The construction company has received payment for the work done so far, and the milestone for the wall restoration with type 'financing' is updated. A new `transaction` is disclosed, with the amount paid to the company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The construction company has received payment for the work done so far, so the milestone for the wall restoration with type 'financing' is updated. A new `transaction` is disclosed, with the amount paid to the company.
```

```eval_rst

.. jsoninclude:: ../../examples/milestones/af-implementation-milestones-1.json
   :jsonpointer: 
   :expand: releases, contracts, implementation, milestones
   :title: implementation

```

```eval_rst

.. jsoninclude:: ../../examples/milestones/af-implementation-milestones-2.json
   :jsonpointer: 
   :expand: releases, contracts, implementation, milestones
   :title: implementation-update-1

```

```eval_rst

.. jsoninclude:: ../../examples/milestones/af-implementation-milestones-3.json
   :jsonpointer: 
   :expand: releases, contracts, implementation, milestones, transactions
   :title: implementation-update-2

```

Notes:

> * Contract implementation milestones are kept updated as things progress with the relevant date added to the `dateModified` field.

Reviewer: Remove, since `.dateModified` is already covered in the intro.

> * At the point of contract signature, a comparison between `tender/milestones` and `contract/implementation/milestones` with a `milestone/type` of 'delivery' or 'reporting' should reveal how the negotiated contract differs from what was set out at tender time.

Reviewer: Move to the introductory section, after the sentence introducing the `.type` field.
